Discord destination doc (#1109)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/streaming-destinations/discord.mdx

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Discord, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Discord**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure Discord as a destination, you need to configure the following settings:

- **Identify Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending an `identify` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default template as: `User {{name}} with {{traits}} is identified`.
- **Event Name**: Enter the event name for which you want the `track` call's event template to be triggered.
- **Event Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending a `track` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default template as: `User {{name}} did {{event}} with {{properties}}`.
- **Regex Matching**: Enable this setting if you want to match multiple event names in the `track` call using a regex. It helps in setting the same event template for event names matching the regex.

> - **Embed Flag**: Enable this setting to set an embed message for Discord. If enabled, also specify the following:

Reviewer: `- **Embed Flag**: Enable this setting to set an embed message for Discord. If enabled, also specify the following:`
```suggestion
- **Embed Flag**: Enable this setting to set an embed message for Discord. If enabled, also specify the following:
Note :If not specified Rudderstack uses the default embed template.
```

- **Webhook Url**: Enter the webhook URL of a Discord channel where you want to send the data. You can create it by logging in to [Discord](https://discord.com/login) and selecting the channel for which you want to send the data. Further, navigate to the **Channel settings** > **Integrations** > **Create Webhook**. 
- **Trait**: Enter all the traits you want to send to Discord in the text message.

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create or update a user in Discord.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  country: "USA"
});
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Either one of the <code class="inline-code">userId</code> or <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is required to make an <code class="inline-code">identify</code> call successfully.
</div>

RudderStack sends the above `identify` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the defaut `identify` template):
- `User Alex Keener with email: alex@example.com, country: USA is identified`

> - When **Embed Flag** setting is enabled and the **Title Template** and **Description Template** are provided in the dashboard settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When **Embed Flag** setting is enabled and the **Title Template** and **Description Template** are not provided i.e. default in the dashboard settings:
```

```javascript
"content": "User Alex Keener with email: alex@example.com, country: USA is identified",
"embeds": [{
  "description": "Identify call made",
  "title": "Message from Rudderstack "
}]
```

> RudderStack sends the text message after converting it into the `identify` template specified in the dashboard. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, it sends the text message in `content` property and the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends `the text message` in `content` property after converting it into the `identify` template specified in the dashboard. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.
```

## Getting started

RudderStack supports sending event data to Discord via the following <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">connection modes</a>:

| **Connection Mode** | **Web**       | **Mobile**    | **Server**    |
| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             | -             | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Discord, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Discord**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure Discord as a destination, you need to configure the following settings:

- **Identify Template**:
- **Event Name**: Enter the event name for which you want the event template to be triggered.

> - **Event Template**:

Reviewer: Can you this complete this please.

- **Regex Matching**: Enable this setting if the event name is a regex which helps to set the same event template for all events matching regex.
- **Embed Flag**: Enable this setting to get the embed message.
- **Webhook Url**: Enter the webhook URL of a discord channel where you want to send the data. You can find it by logging in to the Discord dashboard and navigating to **Channel settings** > **Integration** > **Webhooks**. 
- **Trait**: Enter all the traits you want to send in the text message

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create or update a user in Discord.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  country: "USA"
});

> ```

Reviewer: Message to discord:
`User Alex Keener with email: alex@example.com, country: USA is Identified`

### Property mappings

The following table lists the mappings between the RudderStack and Discord properties:

> 

Reviewer: These property mappings tables are not correct can you refer to the following ones. Also there is no mapping traits being converted to a message and then that message is sent to discord.

Ruddersatck Property | Discord Property | Type |  
-- | -- | -- | --
Format from dashboard to have all the properties and name | content?* | string | Message contents (up to 2000 characters)
Message From Rudderstack | embeds?* | array of https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/channel#embed-object objects | Embedded rich content (up to 6000 characters)

| `properties.ordinal`   <br/> <span style="color: #4D4DFF;font-size:12px;">Required</span>    | `ordinal`             | String |
| `properties.quantity`   <br/> <span style="color: #4D4DFF;font-size:12px;">Required</span>    | `quantity`             | String |
| `properties.profileId` <br/> `config.profileId`  | `profileId`              | Number |
| `properties.encryptedUserId`    | `encryptedUserId`      | String |
| `properties.encryptedUserIdCandidates[]`    | `encryptedUserIdCandidates[]`      | Array |
|`properties.dclid`|`dclid`| String |
| `properties.gclid`     | `gclid`           | String |
| `properties.matchId`       | `matchId`             | String |
| `properties.mobileDeviceId`     | `mobileDeviceId`              |String|

## Track

The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call lets you record and send the conversion events along with any properties associated with them.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  category: "category",
  label: "label",
  value: 120
});

> ```

Reviewer: message to discord:
`Anonymous user anon_id did Order Completed with category: category label: label value: 120`

### Property mappings

The following table lists the mappings between the RudderStack and Discord properties:

> 

Reviewer: same as with identify call

---
title: "Discord"
description: Send your event data from RudderStack to Discord.
---

[Discord](https://discord.com/) is a popular communications app used by gamers to communicate online. It lets you share voice, video, and text chat with friends, game communities, and developers.

> Find the open-source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/src/v0/destinations/discord">GitHub repository</a>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/src/v0/destinations/discord">GitHub repository</a>.
```

## Getting started

RudderStack supports sending event data to Discord via the following <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">connection modes</a>:

| **Connection Mode** | **Web**       | **Mobile**    | **Server**    |
| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             | -             | -             |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Discord, follow these steps:

1. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Discord**.
2. Assign a name to the destination and click **Continue**.

### Connection settings

To successfully configure Discord as a destination, you need to configure the following settings:

> - **Identify Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending an `identify` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default template as: `User {{name}} with {{traits}} is identified`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Identify Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending an `identify` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses `User {{name}} with {{traits}} is identified` as the default template.
```

> - **Event Name**: Enter the event name for which you want the `track` call's event template to be triggered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Event Name**: Enter the event name for which RudderStack triggers the `track` call's event template.
```

> - **Event Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending a `track` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default template as: `User {{name}} did {{event}} with {{properties}}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Event Template**: Enter a template for building a text message while sending a `track` call to Discord. If not provided, RudderStack uses `User {{name}} did {{event}} with {{properties}}` as the default template.
```

> - **Regex Matching**: Enable this setting if you want to match multiple event names in the `track` call using a regex. It helps in setting the same event template for event names matching the regex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Regex Matching**: Enable this setting if you want to match multiple event names in the `track` call using a regex. It helps in setting the same event template for the event names matching the regex.
```

- **Embed Flag**: Enable this setting to set an embed message for Discord. If enabled, also specify the following:

>     - **Title Template**: Enter the template for building the title of the embed message. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default title as: `Identify/Track call made`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Title Template**: Enter the template for building the title of the embed message. If not provided, RudderStack uses `Identify/Track call made` as the default title.
```

>     - **Description Template**: Enter the template for building the description of the embed message. If not provided, RudderStack uses the default description as: `Message from RudderStack`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Description Template**: Enter the template for building the description of the embed message. If not provided, RudderStack uses `Message from RudderStack` as the default description .
```

> - **Webhook Url**: Enter the webhook URL of a Discord channel where you want to send the data. You can create it by logging in to [Discord](https://discord.com/login) and selecting the channel for which you want to send the data. Further, navigate to the **Channel settings** > **Integrations** > **Create Webhook**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Webhook Url**: Enter the webhook URL of the Discord channel where you want to send the data. You can create it by logging in to [Discord](https://discord.com/login), selecting the channel, and going to the **Channel settings** > **Integrations** > **Create Webhook**.
```

- **Trait**: Enter all the traits you want to send to Discord in the text message.

## Identify

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> call to create or update a user in Discord.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  country: "USA"
});
```

<div class="infoBlock">
Either one of the <code class="inline-code">userId</code> or <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code> is required to make an <code class="inline-code">identify</code> call successfully.
</div>

> RudderStack sends the above `identify` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the defaut `identify` template):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the above `identify` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the default `identify` template):
```

- `User Alex Keener with email: alex@example.com, country: USA is identified`
- When the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled and the default values for **Title Template** and **Description Template** are used:

```javascript
"content": "User Alex Keener with email: alex@example.com, country: USA is identified",
"embeds": [{
  "description": "Identify call made",
  "title": "Message from Rudderstack "
}]
```

> RudderStack sends the text message in `content` property after converting it into the `identify` template specified in the dashboard. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, it sends the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the text message in the `content` property after converting it into the `identify` template specified in the dashboard. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, it sends the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.
```

## Track

You can use the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track">`track`</Link> call to capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  category: "category",
  label: "label",
  value: 120
});
```

<div class="infoBlock">
<code class="inline-code">event name</code> is a required property to make a <code class="inline-code">track</code> call successfully.
</div>

> RudderStack sends the above `track` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the defaut `track` template):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the above `track` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the default `track` template):
```

> RudderStack sends the above `track` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the defaut `track` template):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the above `track` call to Discord in the following text message format (using the default `track` template specified in the **Event Template** dashboard setting):
```

Author: default template is taken when no template is defined in the dashboard setting.

- `Anonymous user anon_id did Order Completed with category: category, label: label, value: 120`
- When the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled and the default values for **Title Template** and **Description Template** are used:

```javascript
"content": "Anonymous user anon_id did Order Completed with category: category, label: label, value: 120",
"embeds": [{
  "description": "Track call made",
  "title": "Message from Rudderstack "
}]
```

> RudderStack sends the text message in `content` property after converting it into the `track` template specified in the dashboard. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, it sends the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RudderStack sends the text message in `content` property after converting it into the `track` template specified in the **Event Template** dashboard setting. Also, if the **Embed Flag** setting is enabled, it sends the embed message details in the `embeds` property. Refer to the [Discord documentation](https://discord.com/developers/docs/resources/webhook) for more information.
```
